packages/browserid-verifier/README.md, before:

[![Docker Build Status](https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla/browserid-verifier/tree/master.svg?style=shield&circle-token=da8b9c7c4c778b238eeadb6d8bc695f2be4e22df)](https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla/browserid-verifier/tree/master)

## A BrowserID verification server

**This project has moved to https://github.com/mozilla/fxa/tree/master/packages/browserid-verifier**

This repository contains a flexible BrowserID verification server authored in
Node.JS which uses the [local verification library](https://github.com/mozilla/browserid-local-verify).

## Getting Started

To run the verification server locally:

    $ git clone git://github.com/mozilla/browserid-verifier
    $ cd browserid-verifier
    $ npm install
    $ npm start

At this point, your verifier will be running and available to use locally over
HTTP.

## Configuration

There are several configuration variables which can change the behavior of the
server. You can inspect available configuration variables in `lib/config.js`.
You can specify a set of `json` configuration files using the `CONFIG_FILES`
environment variable (separate each path with a comma (`,`)). Finally, you can
inspect the current server configuration with:

    $ node ./lib/server.js -c

## Health Checks

The server exports an endpoint at `/status` that can be polled for server health.
When the server is healthy, a `200` HTTP response is returned with a body of `OK`.

## API

The server exports an HTTP endpoint at `/v2` that can be POSTed to verify BrowserID
assertions. Arguments may be provided inside a JSON object. The following are
required:

1. Requests must be an HTTP POST.
2. Content-Type must equal `application/json`
3. POST body must be valid JSON.

The following arguments are supported:

### **required** (string) `assertion`

A BrowserID assertion

### **required** (string) `audience`

The origin of the site to which the assertion is expected to be bound.

### **optional** (array of strings) `trustedIssuers`

An array of domain names that are _trusted_ issuers. Assertions
signed by any of the domains in this set will be honored regardless of
the presence of a subject or principal in a BrowserID assertion.

### Error Response

Example:

    $ curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -d '{ "audience": "http://example.com", "assertion": "bogus" }' \
      https://verifier.mozcloud.org/v2
    {
      "status": "failure",
      "reason": "no certificates provided"
    }

Upon failure, the verifier returns a non-200 HTTP status code. Additionally, the
response body contains a JSON formated response containing a `status` key with the
value of `failure`. Additionally, more verbose developer readable information will
be available in a string value on the `reason` key.

### Success Response

Example:

    $ curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -d '{ "audience": "http://123done.org" , "assertion": "eyJhbG...ZEe7A" }'
      https://verifier.mozcloud.org/v2
    {
      "audience": "http://123done.org",
      "expires": 1389791993675,
      "issuer": "mockmyid.com",
      "email": "lloyd@mockmyid.com",
      "status": "okay"
    }

Upon successful assertion verification, a 200 response will be sent with a JSON formatted body.
The body will always include `audience`, `issuer`, `status` (of "okay"), and `expires`.

### Extra IdP claims

The verifier will extract any number of additional claims from the
Identity Certificate generated by the Identity Provider. These claims
will be returned under a `idpClaims` top level key in the success response. Hence, an identity
certificate which looks like this:

    {
      "pubkey": { "...": "..." },
      "sub": "60ae5097-8118-4c58-bb80-7db2742d137e",
      "iat": 1389964111,
      "exp": 1421500111,
      "iss": "example.com",
      "fxa-version": 1,
      "fxa-generation": 504,
      "email": "user@example.com"
    }

Upon successful verification (which could only occur via `.trustedIssuers` because authority lookup will fail), will
result in a verifier response like this:

    {
      "audience": "...",
      "expires": 1421500111,
      "issuer": "example.com",
      "idpClaims": {
        "fxa-version": 1,
        "fxa-generation": 504,
        "email": "user@example.com"
      },
      "status": "okay"
    }

Commit message:

docs(all): update readmes across all packages to improve testing documentation

packages/browserid-verifier/README.md, after:

[![Docker Build Status](https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla/browserid-verifier/tree/master.svg?style=shield&circle-token=da8b9c7c4c778b238eeadb6d8bc695f2be4e22df)](https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla/browserid-verifier/tree/master)

## A BrowserID verification server

This repository contains a flexible BrowserID verification server authored in
Node.JS which uses the [local verification library](https://github.com/mozilla/browserid-local-verify).

## Getting Started

To run the verification server locally:

    $ git clone git://github.com/mozilla/browserid-verifier
    $ cd browserid-verifier
    $ npm install
    $ npm start

At this point, your verifier will be running and available to use locally over
HTTP.

## Configuration

There are several configuration variables which can change the behavior of the
server. You can inspect available configuration variables in `lib/config.js`.
You can specify a set of `json` configuration files using the `CONFIG_FILES`
environment variable (separate each path with a comma (`,`)). Finally, you can
inspect the current server configuration with:

    $ node ./lib/server.js -c

## Health Checks

The server exports an endpoint at `/status` that can be polled for server health.
When the server is healthy, a `200` HTTP response is returned with a body of `OK`.

## Testing

This package uses [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/) to test its code. By default `npm test` will test all JS files under `tests/`.

Test specific tests with the following commands:

```bash
# Test only tests/health-check.js
npx mocha tests/health-check.js

# Grep for "test servers should start"
npx mocha -g "test servers should start"
```

Refer to Mocha's [CLI documentation](https://mochajs.org/#command-line-usage) for more advanced test configuration.

## API

The server exports an HTTP endpoint at `/v2` that can be POSTed to verify BrowserID
assertions. Arguments may be provided inside a JSON object. The following are
required:

1. Requests must be an HTTP POST.
2. Content-Type must equal `application/json`
3. POST body must be valid JSON.

The following arguments are supported:

### **required** (string) `assertion`

A BrowserID assertion

### **required** (string) `audience`

The origin of the site to which the assertion is expected to be bound.

### **optional** (array of strings) `trustedIssuers`

An array of domain names that are _trusted_ issuers. Assertions
signed by any of the domains in this set will be honored regardless of
the presence of a subject or principal in a BrowserID assertion.

### Error Response

Example:

    $ curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -d '{ "audience": "http://example.com", "assertion": "bogus" }' \
      https://verifier.mozcloud.org/v2
    {
      "status": "failure",
      "reason": "no certificates provided"
    }

Upon failure, the verifier returns a non-200 HTTP status code. Additionally, the
response body contains a JSON formated response containing a `status` key with the
value of `failure`. Additionally, more verbose developer readable information will
be available in a string value on the `reason` key.

### Success Response

Example:

    $ curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -d '{ "audience": "http://123done.org" , "assertion": "eyJhbG...ZEe7A" }'
      https://verifier.mozcloud.org/v2
    {
      "audience": "http://123done.org",
      "expires": 1389791993675,
      "issuer": "mockmyid.com",
      "email": "lloyd@mockmyid.com",
      "status": "okay"
    }

Upon successful assertion verification, a 200 response will be sent with a JSON formatted body.
The body will always include `audience`, `issuer`, `status` (of "okay"), and `expires`.

### Extra IdP claims

The verifier will extract any number of additional claims from the
Identity Certificate generated by the Identity Provider. These claims
will be returned under a `idpClaims` top level key in the success response. Hence, an identity
certificate which looks like this:

    {
      "pubkey": { "...": "..." },
      "sub": "60ae5097-8118-4c58-bb80-7db2742d137e",
      "iat": 1389964111,
      "exp": 1421500111,
      "iss": "example.com",
      "fxa-version": 1,
      "fxa-generation": 504,
      "email": "user@example.com"
    }

Upon successful verification (which could only occur via `.trustedIssuers` because authority lookup will fail), will
result in a verifier response like this:

    {
      "audience": "...",
      "expires": 1421500111,
      "issuer": "example.com",
      "idpClaims": {
        "fxa-version": 1,
        "fxa-generation": 504,
        "email": "user@example.com"
      },
      "status": "okay"
    }
