packages/fxa-customs-server/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Anyone is welcome to help with Firefox Accounts. Feel free to get in touch with other community members on IRC, the
mailing list or through issues here on GitHub.

- IRC: `#fxa` on `irc.mozilla.org`
- Mailing list: <https://mail.mozilla.org/listinfo/dev-fxacct>
- and of course, [the bug tracker](https://github.com/mozilla/fxa-customs-server/issues)

## Bug Reports

You can file issues here on GitHub. Please try to include as much information as you can and under what conditions
you saw the issue.

## Sending Pull Requests

Patches should be submitted as pull requests. When submitting patches as PRs:

- You agree to license your code under the project's open source license ([MPL 2.0](/LICENSE)).
- Base your branch off the current `master` (see below for an example workflow).
- Add both your code and new tests if relevant.
- Run `npm test` to make sure all tests still pass.
- Please do not include merge commits in pull requests; include only commits with the new relevant code.
- Your commit message must follow the
  [commit guidelines](https://github.com/mozilla/fxa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#git-commit-guidelines).

See the main [README.md](/README.md) for information on prerequisites, installing, running and testing.

## Example Workflow

This is an example workflow to make it easier to submit Pull Requests. Imagine your username is `user1`:

1. Fork this repository via the GitHub interface

2. The clone the upstream (as origin) and add your own repo as a remote:

   ```sh
   $ git clone https://github.com/mozilla/fxa-customs-server.git
   $ cd fxa-customs-server
   $ git remote add user1 git@github.com:user1/fxa-customs-server.git
   ```

3. Create a branch for your fix/feature and make sure it's your currently checked-out branch:

   ```sh
   $ git checkout -b add-new-feature
   ```

4. Add/fix code, add tests then commit and push this branch to your repo:

   ```sh
   $ git add <files...>
   $ git commit
   $ git push user1 add-new-feature
   ```

5. From the GitHub interface for your repo, click the `Review Changes and Pull Request` which appears next to your new branch.

6. Click `Send pull request`.

### Keeping up to Date

The main reason for creating a new branch for each feature or fix is so that you can track master correctly. If you need
to fetch the latest code for a new fix, try the following:

```sh
$ git checkout master
$ git pull
```

Now you're ready to branch again for your new feature (from step 3 above).

Commit message:

docs(contributing): update contact information to reflect move to Matrix
Because: On March 2020, Mozilla moved from IRC to Matrix. To ensure a smooth transition, information on how to access Matrix and reach the fxa team in this new virtual space needed to be added to our documentation.

packages/fxa-customs-server/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Anyone is welcome to help with Firefox Accounts. Feel free to get in touch with other community members on Matrix, the
mailing list or through issues here on GitHub.

- Matrix: [#fxa:mozilla.org](https://chat.mozilla.org/#/room/#fxa:mozilla.org)
- Mailing list: <https://mail.mozilla.org/listinfo/dev-fxacct>
- and of course, [the bug tracker](https://github.com/mozilla/fxa-customs-server/issues)

UPDATE: On March 2020, Mozilla moved from IRC to Matrix. For more information on Matrix, check out the following wiki article: <https://wiki.mozilla.org/Matrix>.

## Bug Reports

You can file issues here on GitHub. Please try to include as much information as you can and under what conditions
you saw the issue.

## Sending Pull Requests

Patches should be submitted as pull requests. When submitting patches as PRs:

- You agree to license your code under the project's open source license ([MPL 2.0](/LICENSE)).
- Base your branch off the current `master` (see below for an example workflow).
- Add both your code and new tests if relevant.
- Run `npm test` to make sure all tests still pass.
- Please do not include merge commits in pull requests; include only commits with the new relevant code.
- Your commit message must follow the
  [commit guidelines](https://github.com/mozilla/fxa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#git-commit-guidelines).

See the main [README.md](/README.md) for information on prerequisites, installing, running and testing.

## Example Workflow

This is an example workflow to make it easier to submit Pull Requests. Imagine your username is `user1`:

1. Fork this repository via the GitHub interface

2. The clone the upstream (as origin) and add your own repo as a remote:

   ```sh
   $ git clone https://github.com/mozilla/fxa-customs-server.git
   $ cd fxa-customs-server
   $ git remote add user1 git@github.com:user1/fxa-customs-server.git
   ```

3. Create a branch for your fix/feature and make sure it's your currently checked-out branch:

   ```sh
   $ git checkout -b add-new-feature
   ```

4. Add/fix code, add tests then commit and push this branch to your repo:

   ```sh
   $ git add <files...>
   $ git commit
   $ git push user1 add-new-feature
   ```

5. From the GitHub interface for your repo, click the `Review Changes and Pull Request` which appears next to your new branch.

6. Click `Send pull request`.

### Keeping up to Date

The main reason for creating a new branch for each feature or fix is so that you can track master correctly. If you need
to fetch the latest code for a new fix, try the following:

```sh
$ git checkout master
$ git pull
```

Now you're ready to branch again for your new feature (from step 3 above).
