docs/adr/index.md, before:

# Architectural Decision Log

This log lists the architectural decisions for [project name].

<!-- adrlog -- Regenerate the content by using "adr-log -i". You can install it via "npm install -g adr-log" -->

- [ADR-0000](0000-use-markdown-architectural-decision-records.md) - Use Markdown Architectural Decision Records
- [ADR-0001](0001-isolating-payment-content-with-third-party-widgets-from-general-account-management.md) - Isolating payment content with third-party widgets from general account management
- [ADR-0002](0002-use-react-redux-and-typescript-for-subscription-management-pages.md) - Use React, Redux, and Typescript for subscription management pages
- [ADR-0003](0003-event-broker-for-subscription-platform.md) - Event Broker for Subscription Platform
- [ADR-0004](0004-product-capabilities-for-subscription-services.md) - Product Capabilities for Subscription Services
- [ADR-0005](0005-minimize-password-entry.md) - Minimizing password entry

<!-- adrlogstop -->

For new ADRs, please use [template.md](template.md) as basis.
More information on MADR is available at <https://adr.github.io/madr/>.
General information about architectural decision records is available at <https://adr.github.io/>.

Commit message:

feat(jwt-access-tokens): Add subscription info to JWT access tokens
Make a backendService request from the oauth server to the auth
server to get the user's subscription info since the oauth server
does not have that state.

fixes #1595

docs/adr/index.md, after:

# Architectural Decision Log

This log lists the architectural decisions for [project name].

<!-- adrlog -- Regenerate the content by using "adr-log -i". You can install it via "npm install -g adr-log" -->

- [ADR-0000](0000-use-markdown-architectural-decision-records.md) - Use Markdown Architectural Decision Records
- [ADR-0001](0001-isolating-payment-content-with-third-party-widgets-from-general-account-management.md) - Isolating payment content with third-party widgets from general account management
- [ADR-0002](0002-use-react-redux-and-typescript-for-subscription-management-pages.md) - Use React, Redux, and Typescript for subscription management pages
- [ADR-0003](0003-event-broker-for-subscription-platform.md) - Event Broker for Subscription Platform
- [ADR-0004](0004-product-capabilities-for-subscription-services.md) - Product Capabilities for Subscription Services
- [ADR-0005](0005-minimize-password-entry.md) - Minimizing password entry
- [ADR-0006](0006-json-schemas-for-messaging.md) - Utilizing JSON-Schemas, SemVer, and Tooling for JSON Messaging
- [ADR-0007](0007-subscription-claim-jwt-access-token.md) - Placing subscription info in the `fxa-subscriptions` claim of JWT access tokens

<!-- adrlogstop -->

For new ADRs, please use [template.md](template.md) as basis.
More information on MADR is available at <https://adr.github.io/madr/>.
General information about architectural decision records is available at <https://adr.github.io/>.
